while we're waiting for our people to
join um i would love it if everyone can
just post in the chat and just share
like tell me a little bit about where
you're from like where you're located
awesome
feels like it's pretty late in india i
see someone from india
we have global representation here today
which is amazing
all right i'm going to kick it off um
and continue to let people in while
we're doing that
so welcome everyone welcome disaster
scale i'm lindsay leggett i'm part of
the
team saster thank you so much for
joining us today
i'm going to go over a few quick
housekeeping items
before we actually get into the topic of
discussion for today
so as you will see um housekeeping items
so this is an
interactive conversation we really
designed these round tables
to encourage interaction discussion
among the group
um so we really do encourage you to keep
your camera on
you know join the conversation whether
that's by unmuting yourself
and asking a question sending a comment
submitting a question or a comment via
chat or the reaction button on zoom
there's a lot of different ways to
interact but we really do encourage you
to do so
we really want these sessions to be um
as dynamic as possible so thanks for
thanks for joining us today
these sessions will be recorded so you
do have access to these recordings
after the session and they'll be sent in
a few days
time and last but not least we have
great one-on-one networking
opportunities throughout the week
um and so what i'll do is i'll send in
the chat um a link
to our networking platform and we
encourage you to take some time and
connect with those that are on this
session or other sessions that you're
attending
throughout the week it's a really great
way to to get to know other people and
peers within the business
so without further ado um it's a
pleasure to
introduce fung lin wu the director of
retention marketing at
mongodb and she'll be talking about
building your company's retention
strategy
so i will pass it over thanks for
joining us today
yeah thank you for having me um just so
uh
for people who just joined i was asking
if everyone can just post in the chat
where they're
currently located um i'm based in new
york city so it's about
just after lunch over here um which i do
see a lot of people from europe and
india which is very impressive given the
time zone difference
um so for today's chat uh just briefly
tell you a little bit
quickly about myself i've been at
mongodb for about six months now
i'm helping the company to build out
their retention marketing strategy
prior to i actually started my
career more in top of funnel
more in acquisition marketing but for
the last like two three years of my
career i have kind of pivoted and moved
towards
more life cycle and retention marketing
strategy um
so what i will say before i get started
is i would just love it if anyone has
just jump in with any questions i'll try
to keep an eye on the chat but i do
appreciate just any questions any
dialogue
discussions even if there's like
agreements or disagreements
feel free to just chime in at any point
of this presentation
with that said so what i had in mind to
talk uh to just like share and discuss
as a team as a group today was one why
retention matters um
i think it touches a lot about why i
kind of pivoted my career to be more
towards
more focused on life cycle marketing but
also if you
are just building out a retention
strategy for your company
how you should start like what's a good
starting point what you should think
about how to build out that strategy
and then finally just what are some of
the general metrics that we tend to look
at when it comes to
retention marketing
so i will start by saying um
these are after i actually read a lot of
articles that relate to retention
marketing and there was two
quotes from harvard business review that
really jumped out at me
that i really wanted to share with
everyone in this group
the first one is acquiring a new
customer is 5 to 25 times
more expensive than retaining an
existing one
and i think this should be pretty um
this should be quite self-explanatory
but when you're acquiring a customer
it is extreme extremely expensive the
amount of money you put into paid
marketing dollars the investment you put
into your organic traffic
and just the amount of time it costs the
company both from a marketing and sales
perspective
to find the right clients is extremely
expensive
second this is the second quote that
really stood out to me is
increasing customer retention rates by 5
can increase your profits by 25 to 95
obviously just 25 to 95 is a huge range
and it really just depends on
what type of industry you're in but
ultimately
repeat customers will always spend more
than new customers on average and if
your customers are happy and they retain
with you
they are the most likely audience or
users to refer your own company brand
to help you develop that loop to keep
bringing in new customers at a very
cheap rate
and finally if people know your brand
it is much easier for you to sell them
new products
or even cross-sell products of yours so
think about i think about just my
day-to-day spending
when it comes to even within retail like
once i'm familiar with the brand
and they launch a new product it is that
much easier for me to buy into the
product and i think about like companies
like apple right or amazon like those
are
companies that's very like intuitive to
think about
why retention is so important
next i really want to talk about how to
develop well how i think about getting
started um
in my current company and in my last
company i was very focused on building
out this retention marketing strategy
and really thinking
how we can really start to optimize our
funnel and this is where i would love
for anyone just to chime in
tell me what you think if it makes sense
or not
just share also even just share your own
experience and what you've seen
so when i every time i join a new
company
i think through this funnel and i think
in the past and
i feel like in the past in marketing the
whole funnel was very focused on
how do we get people from awareness to
registration
and it was only more recently that
there's this like huge shift of focus
that's about when someone registers how
can i get them from registration
and expand and get them to become my
strongest ambassador
of my product and that's actually where
i think
you're as a as a team you need to focus
on
your strategy on so whenever i
what the way i do mongodb for example is
one i try to be very granular um
i try to be very granular about the
customer journey right so i try to think
about
in this slide i have it pretty simple
it's registration activation
retention expansion and then advocacy
but within every single
everyone's company you have to think
through
as detailed and granular as you could be
within this funnel
can you think about what are the steps
that goes between registration
activation what are the steps between
activation to retention etc the more you
map out your customer journey
the better the easier it will be for you
to find those areas of opportunity
once you find what your funnel looks
like for your
company you should really work with the
data team
and understand what conversion rate
looks like at each of those stages
right is your registration to activation
a sixty percent like do sixty percent of
your users activate after registering
right
once they activate how many what does
your retention rate look like like what
does your 30-day retention rate look
like is it in the 80
70 etc but when you can map out where
my like ready stars are or diamonds or
whatever shape they are um but if you
can find out where your conversion rate
is
at each of these stage that will
actually be very telling for you
because you can then compare those to
industries very similar to yours and
you can instantly tell where your errors
of opportunity is
so for example um for
some companies activation is usually
defined as either you enter a credit
card
um or it means you activate when you
take that first action in getting
started with a sas product
so mongodb for example it can be once
someone deploys a cluster
that's how we would define activation
and
we know what our registration to
activation percentage looks like
and we know that it is above industry
standard
and given that that means that my first
priority when i joined the company was
not to focus on this registration to
activation piece
then the second stage i look at is then
i look at retention retention right and
i
i worked with my data team i figured out
what my 30-day retention rate is
and i was able to then segment within it
and realize that different cohorts of
users
have different 30-day retention rates
and that is also very
that helps me know which segment of my
users should i
really be optimizing that retention
strategy for and retention for me
is can be anything on the first 30 days
of onboarding right like how can i
how can i set expectations correctly
within their
first 30 days with me within 30 days
with the product
so i can set them up for success set up
their expectations so that they are
really going to start leveraging our
product
and become very engaged users
so i hope this all makes sense i'm going
to pause maybe for like a quick
10 seconds just to see if there's any
questions coming out of this
uh how do you pronounce your name
you can call me fung okay fun
that's that's fun okay that's right um
so if if
a thousand people are at awareness
generally speaking what percentage could
you expect to get add to advocacy
that's actually a pretty good question
i've actually i actually don't know if
i've ever looked
from awareness down to advocacy
like i actually don't know if i ever
because sometimes when i think of
advocacy i think of like you
start to have an expansion right because
you can also look at these in a dollar
sense like revenue sense
and if that's the case it it's not like
oh if a thousand people join you're only
going to end up with like two people
in advocacy so i actually don't know if
i
have i guess the short answer is i don't
know if i actually can tell you the
actual
what i think is like industry standard
what i can share is like generally like
what i see
within like registration to activation
right like usually you want that 70
ballpark and it also depends on if
you're a freemium
or like a free trial product so
the standard like the conversion rates
really varies heavily on your product
and also what how your company monetizes
and actually john thank you for uh
speaking john is saying he usually sees
like a 22
do you ever sit around thinking about
how to create more advocates
um it's interesting because
i've worked for b2b in the last few
years and i will say
advocacy in b2b in my experience has
been a little harder
only because um in some of my past
companies we've really tried to figure
out
what incentivizes b2bs
to refer us right because giving giving
people like
a 10 credit that they're charging the
company
isn't a big incentive so i will say
advocacy is something that i think a lot
about but i also think is
harder in a b2b space
last thing like for example someone
signs up you ask them if they'd like to
be an inspiration to others and
potentially participate in a documentary
of how they transform their business
they check yes
you record elements through the process
then they become an advocacy story
you've made for them they share it
and then you have more advocates yeah
and actually
so advocates can be either like in the
sense of like referral i think of it it
can be either like referral programs
right like
refer us or refer a different company
or refer a friend so that that company
can use us but actually
you bring up another good point because
in my last company one of the things
they also do is
they have an idea of like a developer
community um so if you
i work i work for companies that targets
developers maybe as a
just as a background but a lot of the
companies i've been working for
has the idea of they built a developer
community and they actually
asked developers to help publish
articles
and a lot of developers will actually do
it because it helps them build up their
own portfolio but it's also something
they're passionate about
and that in a way is advocacy because
you're having other people
essentially help promote your own
organic and seo traffic over time and
building your own content
so i think advocacy can work or can
it can show up in a different way like a
a bunch of different ways
thank you i've never thought about how
to turn more customers into advocates
and it
it seems like a very nice flywheel yeah
and i think about it in
like in consumer markets it's very
apparent where
i always refer my friends to i don't
know the newest pot and pans that i just
like literally thanksgiving i bought a
bunch of pots and pans right and i
referred my entire family to it
so i get that ten dollars off but i
think the same
can be applied or should be applied in a
b2b
but it probably just has to be a little
more creative and it can't be in the
form of
i think money might be less of incentive
when it when you're spending company
money
yeah thank you yeah
yeah i might chime in sorry my name's
bill um fascinating topic i was at a
company i had a guy work for me who was
extremely good at doing this it was b2b
and what he had mapped out with a very
sophisticated customer
journey to your point um and
what we were very thoughtful about was
you can't get somebody to an
advocacy stage until they were ready to
get there so
we started off by just trying to
understand where they were
like how long has it been since they
first purchased
have an assumption if we had metrics is
how far along were they in using the
product
and then after they had used it what
services of the product were they using
or not and started to educate them about
other services that they had already
paid for
that they weren't using to try to just
position ourselves as being
we want you to get as much value out of
the services you've already bought and
then
provide them successes and videos of
customers that had gotten
you know value out of that and then
after a period of time
we sort of were felt comfortable after
they engaged with the content we could
measure that
could we approach them to be quote
unquote and advocate but we were very
careful not to assume that they were an
advocate until they had gone pretty far
down
in terms of timeline and consumption of
the services that we offered
because we didn't want to put them off
to think that all what we were trying to
do was just to be yet another
you know another sales another sales
person right it was sort of like
we were very consequential that you've
already bought the product our job is to
make sure you get as much
value out of it and then if we're really
good at doing that
the advocacy should just organically
happen like they'll want to be an
advocate and so
i've never been able to do that since
because to your point it's really hard
and i think companies don't
think that way and that was b2b by the
way but it was a
less than seven thousand dollar sort of
acv product that went through
a channel so it was very it was very
transactional so it was
high volume kind of a thing so it was
i've never been able to do it i'd like
to do it at the company right now but
i've never had a chance
so anyway if that was worth anything to
anybody
it was it was it was well done i
inherited the guy who built it i didn't
i didn't build the park built
yeah i would say advocacy has always
been uh if i were to like look at my own
career i feel like advocacy has always
also been the hardest for me because
especially in b2b and then depending on
who your audience are
like your audience by default might not
be the type of person
that likes to be an advocate right so
you have to
it is very careful because you also
don't want to make them you
once you retain them you don't want to
drive them away
because that would be the worst thing
you can do is
they're you've upsell them you've
suspectfully like crossed all them and
the last thing you want is to drive them
away because you're forcing them to take
more actions so does anybody have any
experience with tools i used influitive
back in the day
you know i don't know if he's using any
tools that was a tool to try to
get people to become influencers but
it's been a long time but i'm curious if
you were
be put in the chat and not bother this
but i'm just curious if people have used
any tools
along the ideas of um you know
building advocacy and i know i used
influence but it was several years ago
so if anybody has any tools i'm
interested
there are a couple new ones like uh
warmly
and user gems which are more focused on
kind of bottoms up sas
um and they're really about uh
advocates who leave your organ your
customer
and then you can use them to as
advocates for future customer base
um but there's tons of them kind of up
to
actually even for myself would you mind
putting that in the chat i'm actually i
would love to look into those companies
too
i think it's like i do think this is
like such a great forum
just to hear other companies and what
tools they use
and in the meantime i'll jump onto my
next slide um
which is kind of a continuation of the
slide prior
but it's it's just to say
when it comes to retention marketing
there are tons of channels you can think
about leveraging
and based on where your biggest drop-off
is
that you should you should really
understand your customers and think
through
which channels is best in influencing
them right so
if your biggest drop-off is like no one
is advocating for your product right
then maybe you think through
how do you build a more successful
referral program and loyalty program
if onboarding is your biggest drop off
then
think through using in-app product tours
or
leveraging email marketing which is a
very email marketing i would say it's
probably the most common
channel for people to get started when
it comes to retention marketing
and in the next slide i'm just going to
share some of the metrics that i tend to
look at
when it comes to retention and i'm going
to bring us back to this funnel
because i think what's interesting is in
every step of this funnel
there should be a metric you should be
looking into to monitor
and some of these are as simple as like
the activation rate
or the retention rate and in our company
we actually will look at
we actually have like 30-day retention
rate 60-day retention rate 90-day
retention rate
um but we do i would say i would imagine
most companies
most sas companies are probably similar
that your 30-day retention rate
is probably the most telling because how
successful you onboard a customer
will probably tell you will probably be
most indicative of how likely they are
they are to retain with you can i ask a
quick question about that um you
mentioned that you kind of are you
working with your data scientists to
pull these numbers
um i guess the mongodb you kind of work
hand in hand with the data scientist to
measure these or
you have a dashboard or kind of how does
this work uh
on a practical level for you guys yeah
um so it originally started as more like
an analysis with the data team and then
what happened is it is built into a
dashboard for us so
we do have like activation rate
retention rate and turn rate
as a dashboard um
mps like net promoter score we also have
it um
that's not in the dashboard that's just
through like the mps site that we use
and actually a multi-product document in
net dollar retention is
numbers that we don't have yet um
but or that's not in the dashboard form
but i think we generally know the number
when we
pour every quarter or once a year
got it thank you yeah but i do highly
recommend like
some stuff like activation rate turn
rate and retention rate you should know
it
you should know what it is on a monthly
basis um
i mean depends on how your company but
for most sas companies where you have a
monthly recurring you want to know that
number on a monthly basis
um madeline you asked about how to
measure
net dollar retention so i think the
general way and actually have a
very quick link on this later on but i
think the general way people think about
measuring it
is you look at what your starting mrr is
and you add your i think you add
expansion and then you deduct all the
churn
dollars and you divide that by your
starting mrr
and your net dollar retention what it's
really measuring
is what percent of your revenue from
your current customers
do you retain so say if you have a hund
over 100
net dollar retention then that means
you're getting growth
from existing customers and that growth
actually offsets
all of your losses in churn um but
there's a
in my last slide i actually have a like
a website that i use
that i that i think describes net dollar
retention pretty well
i'll go into the next slide so that's
kind of the end of the presentation i
know we have
we're pretty much at time um before i
just
see if there's any more questions or
discussions these are
five four of the websites that i think
is very
helpful for anyone to read through so
the first one's a harvard business
review where it really emphasizes the
importance
of retention the next two is a it's a
program called reforge program
and there they develop a lot a lot of
great courses
that can really teach you everything
about any product led growth
type so they can they teach you about
acquisition experimentation retention
etc
and then the last one is um i'm not sure
how many of you are in startups but
i used to work i've worked for startups
in the last five years
and this was a medium post that i think
is very interesting
and i actually use these a lot when i'm
evaluating
startups and one of the metrics it does
talk about is like net dollar retention
so i'm going to end this round table
just with these final thoughts um
i think the first one is most companies
especially within marketing always
starts off focusing on
acquisition and i think that makes that
makes a lot of sense right because you
need to get customers into the door
and prove out a product like a product
market fit however
when the right time comes it is very
important that the company starts to
invest
in retention and in order to invest in
retention it is important to know your
own data
and realize what your conversion rate is
for every single for every single
drop-off
stage and i would say the third one is
i feel like retention has only just
become a
hot topic maybe in the last like five
years
and so i think it's actually i think
there's more there's only more and more
content now
about retention marketing even i myself
still feel pretty new
to the space so the one thing is i try
to join a lot of different slack groups
just to keep myself engaged and
continuing learning about
retention strategies and what i just to
learn about what i don't know yet
so i i hope this round table was helpful
i'd love to just like see if anyone has
any last-minute thoughts or
questions that they want to ask this
group
i i want to just interject real quick
you know i
i took a company from zero to 80 million
in less than five years and the way i
did it was by building it
into the product so retention just like
your pot story
you're a user you used your pots you
decided these are so amazing i got to
share them
so retention is two things really i mean
this is a great topic but it's not going
to be covered in 30 minutes
the thing is is you build that into your
product as much as possible and if you
don't it's on you
you're you're totally screwing yourself
because if you build it into the product
in some way then the user experience
will be
so magnificent that you will build
advocacy all day long with every with
every customer
so if you go about it that way i think
you're better off
and take two steps back and reevaluate
your system or your service or your
product
and also this this subject per day
it can go consumer or can go to b2b i
happen to have 10 years in b2b
and then i have about seven years of b
to c